Summary
=======

The TMGMT Poetry Mock module allows to mimic translation workflow
use cases provided by European Commission Poetry translation services
(served by DGT).

# Installation

In order to enable the mock module, you need to set up the mock path in your
settings.php file.
Check the build.properties.dist file, the variable mock.poetry.base_url should
be set in your build.properties.local file, which will  automatically add it
to settings.php file when building the platform.


Install as usual, see http://drupal.org/node/70151 or Run the drush command
  ```drush en tmgmt_poetry_mock```

  The module enables the following dependencies

  > - tmgmt_poetry_mock, tmgmt_dgt_html, tmgmt_node_ui, tmgmt_node
  > - tmgmt_poetry

 * Login as super admin and go to ```admin/poetry_mock/setup```,

 * Press the button *'Set variable'*,

 * Enable few languages.


# Usage

New menu items appear in the admin menu bar:

1. POETRY Mock: Setup
> * Set up the variables required by POETRY Mock.
> * If $conf['poetry_service'] is defined on the settings.php, configure these values too:
> $conf['poetry_service']['drupal_wsdl'] = '';
> $conf['poetry_service']['poetry_endpoint'] = '';

2. POETRY Mock: Dashboard
> View the list of jobs for which you can mock translation receipt.

3. POETRY Mock: Send request
> Send an XML request to Drupal endpoint to mock a specific response.

*Workflow:*

* Create a page, click translate tab and select a language,
* Select 'TMGMT Poetry Test translator' and press 'Submit to translator',
* Reach the Poetry Mock dashboard and click 'Translate' or 'Reject translation',
* Go back to your content's translate page to view the translation received.

From the dashboard, click the 'Entity ID' to view the node translate tab.

From the dashboard, click the 'File ID' to view the generated XML file.

# Logs

Files generated by the mock are saved in
_public://tmgmt_files/poetry_mock_requests_
